# SMTP_Protocol
1. SMTP (Multiple servers): [Heba Sherif] 
 
▪ We will use TCP sockets and threads. ▪ Multiple Servers and Multiple clients can all connect at the same time. ➢ We just need one class for the server and one class for the client and run each of them multiple times. ➢ Each server should state at the beginning its name (ex. Yahoo, Gmail) and port number. ➢ Each client should state at the beginning server port number. ▪ Each server should have a folder saved on the machine with its name (ex. Gmail).  ➢ This folder is created automatically when the server boots up and states its name for the first time. ➢ If the name already exists, no new folder will be created. ▪ Each server folder should have a file called ‘credentials’ contains the username and password for each user. ▪ Each server folder has multiple sub-folders for users. ➢ Each sub-folder is named with username (ex. user1). ➢ Each sub-folder should have a file named ‘inbox’ where the received emails are saved. ▪ When the client runs, there are two options. i. Register. ➢ The client registers with a new email (ex. user1@gmail.com) and password. ➢ A sub-folder will be created automatically in the server folder. ➢ The ‘inbox’ file will be also created automatically in this sub-folder. ➢ The username (ex.user1) and password are saved in the ‘credentials’ file. ii. Login. ➢ No need to create a sub-folder as it already exists. ➢ No need to create ‘inbox’ file as it already exists. ➢ The username and password should be checked in the ‘credentials’ file. 
▪ A client can send a new email with content (MAIL FROM, RCPT TO, DATA) ➢ This email is firstly sent to the sender server. ➢ The sender server forwards this email to the recipient server. ➢ The recipient server saves this email in the ‘inbox’ file placed in the recipient subfolder. ▪  Example from Server Console:  ➢ Output: Please enter the server name and port number. ➢ Input: gmail.com ➢ Input: 5000 ➢ Output: Gmail server with port number ‘5000’ is booted up. ▪ Example from Client Console: ➢ Output: Please enter server port number. ➢ Input: 5000 ➢ Output: 220  gmail.com // A message from server. ➢ Output: Please choose ‘REGISTER or ‘LOGIN’ or ‘QUIT’. ➢ Input: REGISTER ➢ Output: Please enter an email and a password. ➢ Input: user1@gmail.com // Send this to the server. ➢ Input: 123 // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: HELLO user1@gmail.com // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: 250 Hello user1, pleased to meet you // A message from server. ➢ Output: Please choose ‘SEND’ or ‘QUIT’. ➢ Input: SEND ➢ Output: MAIL FROM user1@gmail.com // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: Server: 250 user1@gmail.com...Sender ok // A message from server. ➢ Output: RCPT TO // Send this to the server. ➢ Input: user1@yahoo.com // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: Server: 250 user1@yahoo.com...Recipient ok // A message from server. ➢ Output: DATA // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: Server: Please enter the body of your email ended by ‘&&&‘ // A message from server. ➢ Input: Dear, // Send this to the server. ➢ Input: How are you? // Send this to the server. ➢ Input: &&& // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: Server: 250 Message accepted for delivery // A message from server. ➢ Output: Please choose ‘SEND’ or ‘QUIT’. ➢ Input: QUIT // Send this to the server. ➢ Output: Server: 221 gmail.com closing connection // A message from s
